>> Speaker 1: Now is the fun
part of making it look for
some definition of pretty, pretty [LAUGH].
>> Speaker 2: So, there's lots of ways
we could style this, but same as HTML,
we have the power within our
JavaScript to change the styles of
elements that will be interpreted
by the browser's CSS engine,
which is a whole other ball of wax,
to make things look nice.
>> Speaker 1: So what did folks do?
>> Speaker 2: How did we style this?
>> Speaker 1: And this is now starting
to be the open-ended question of taste.
>> Speaker 2: But one thing we said is,
it would be nice to move it around, right?
>> Speaker 1: So there's a few
different ways we could do this,
but since these are,
if we check the little in page style
tags here in this little mini stylesheet.
>> Speaker 2: These are positioned
relatively, which means we can choose and
specify exactly where within
their parent element,
this p element is going to get placed.
>> Speaker 1: That can be done with top,
for
example, if I did top 100px and,
I don't know, left 50px,
I could do that in CSS.
>> Speaker 2: And this is, again,
not a CSS course by any stretch of
the imagination, but we see it moved.
>> Speaker 1: So if I don't necessarily
set those in my CSS right here,
but if I set them through JavaScript and
change it up,
I can get a very impressive to a 90s
child animated [LAUGH] animated clock.
>> Speaker 2: So let us figure out
how we can get randomness involved,
so that we can, instead of just
having topOffset = 100px and
leftOffset is, what did I say,
50px or whatever,
we don't want these to be hardcoded
values, we want them to be random.
>> Speaker 1: So, how did people do this?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah,
anybody wanna share their solution?
>> Speaker 1: Yeah, go ahead.
>> Speaker 2: Math.random [LAUGH]
>> Speaker 1: Math.random is gonna be our
friend here.
>> Speaker 2: For sure, but
we still have a couple more steps to go.
>> Speaker 1: So if I call, if I get a new
value from Math.random.
>> Speaker 2: This is gonna be a random
number, as we said, between 0 and 1,
right?
>> Speaker 1: Now if I were to,
let's say, have the topOffset now,
I'm moving it around in VS Code,
but whatevs.
>> Speaker 2: If I were to have
this be a random number plus px and
then, where are we, okay?
>> Speaker 1: And then on my text,
we could set an attribute,
let's say, of top, sorry,
style, to a little mini stylesheet
where we have,
>> Speaker 2: Let's say, okay,
we have the first part of the CSS rule,
top, and then we have a,
okay, all right, thank you VS Code,
you're so helpful.
>> Speaker 1: Top offset.
>> Speaker 2: Then we might get something
interesting, let's see what happens.
>> Speaker 1: It looks exactly the same.
>> Speaker 2: Any guess why this is?
>> Speaker 1: Because the random
number is a portion of a single pixel.
>> Speaker 2: Exactly.
>> Speaker 1: You need to
scale it to the window size.
>> Speaker 2: Exactly, so
we're essentially moving this
like a negligible amount.
>> Speaker 1: So we wanna scale
up that value, as you said, and
we can use various values to do that.
>> Speaker 2: But
one thing that might simplify our lives.
>> Speaker 1: We have access
to the whole browser, so
we know all kinds of stuff about
the window, how big it is.
>> Speaker 2: We're getting to
a world where we can even get more
detailed information about, layout,
as it's happening, whatever.
>> Speaker 1: But we could also use
the percentage convenience of CSS and
make our lives a little bit easier.
>> Speaker 2: So
if I add a percentage and maybe multiply,
why don't I get my random number times,
okay, well,
this math equation is not gonna work out,
okay.
>> Speaker 1: So if I multiply my random
number times 100, now I will have
something between 0 and 100 instead
of 0 and 1, and I can add a percent.
>> Speaker 2: Let's see if
that made any difference?
>> Speaker 1: Well, no.
>> Speaker 2: What happened?
>> Speaker 1: Can you see in the inspector
what it's setting [CROSSTALK]
>> Speaker 2: We sure can, and
that's exactly what we're gonna do, and
it's entirely possible that
something silly is going on.
>> Speaker 1: All right, yeah, okay.
>> Speaker 2: What happened?
>> Speaker 1: Why is this staying put?
>> Speaker 2: This was an intentional
mistake because we're learning things.
>> Speaker 1: Is it cuz
it's never changing?
>> Speaker 2: Did you set it
outside of the setInterval?
>> Speaker 1: So
this is interesting, right?
>> Speaker 2: I'm giving it this random
value every time, and we see something's
happening every three seconds,
the time is actually changing.
>> Speaker 1: Does it
change if you reload?
>> Speaker 2: Go back to your code.
>> Speaker 1: Does it change if I reload?
>> Speaker 2: Let's find out.
>> Speaker 1: Well,
it's a little hard to tell, but
what's happening is we chose a random
number once and for all, yeah?
>> Speaker 2: You've got const for
your offset.
>> Speaker 1: We are using a const,
and that,
>> Speaker 2: Adds a little layer
of complication, so
we can talk about that later.
>> Speaker 1: But most importantly,
the call to Math.random is not happening
within the callback function that
I'm passing to the interval.
>> Speaker 2: So that means this call
to Math.random only runs once when
I'm defining this variable.
>> Speaker 1: And
then every three seconds,
I keep setting it to the same value.
>> Speaker 2: Even though, for example,
the date is changing because
we notice the date is being
newly reborn every time this
updateTime function runs.
>> Speaker 1: And the setInterval here
schedules this updateTime function to run
every three seconds.
>> Speaker 2: It does not schedule this
entire script to run every three seconds.
>> Speaker 1: It does not schedule
JavaScript to time travel back
3,000 milliseconds ago to find out and
rerun.
>> Speaker 2: No,
it only knows what we have in here.
>> Speaker 1: And this is getting
at something very interesting,
which we're gonna talk about a bit later,
related to how scope works in JavaScript,
so we'll have a little
refresher on scope there.
>> Speaker 2: But for now,
if I were to take this calculation here,
and move it in to
the body of the function.
>> Speaker 1: That I want to call.
>> Speaker 2: We might have a little
bit better of an experience,
it moved a tiny bit, but it still moved.
>> Speaker 1: Okay, now, it's moving
around, and sometimes it's moving up and
sometimes it's moving down,
but this feels better.
>> Speaker 2: This is more in
the direction of what we wanted, but
it's still always on this
left side of the screen.
>> Speaker 1: So what I could do is we
could even get a, we could change this.
>> Speaker 2: So let's say I'm
gonna just get the top offset by
calling math.random and
multiplying it by 100.
>> Speaker 1: And then I could
get a left offset by making a new
call to math.random.
>> Speaker 2: Because if I use
that same math.random value,
it's just gonna be always on the diagonal,
I guess.
>> Speaker 1: So if I now, what else
can kind of make our life easier here
is a fancier way of doing this little
plus operation of concatenating strings.
>> Speaker 2: What if I had a way to just
write the string once, and then fill in
the values I needed, that would be a,
anybody know what they're called?
>> Speaker 1: A string template literal.
>> Speaker 2: A string template
literal in JavaScript, exactly,
which I can make with my good friend,
the backtick.
>> Speaker 1: So, in general,
what I want CSS to see is something
like top blah blah percent,
left blah blah percent.
>> Speaker 2: And I can tell JavaScript
to inject or interpolate the values
of these blah blahs by using
a dollar sign and curly braces.
>> Speaker 1: Which is saying,
okay, leave the string land and
reenter JavaScript land and
evaluates what's between the braces.
>> Speaker 2: So this is all a little
bit of review here if some syntax, so
I can do topOffset% and
similarly, leftOffset%.
>> Speaker 1: The other thing I could do
is event just put this whole operation in
here since I'm not really using
this offset value anywhere else.
>> Speaker 2: So ideally this should work
pretty much the same as it did before,
and now it is moving in both dimensions.
>> Speaker 1: Huzzah!
>> Speaker 2: And so we can do something
similar with color values, for
example, to add a little pizzazz,
and for that, I would recommend.
>> Speaker 1: Well, did folks manage
to change the color of it, yeah, okay.
>> Speaker 2: What did you use?
>> Speaker 1: Well,
to be perfectly transparent,
copilot told me to do this [LAUGH].
>> Speaker 2: Okay, so
Github's copilot, AKA the AI developer
that makes us all feel things
about ourselves [LAUGH].
>> Speaker 1: You certainly have to,
you certainly need to check it.
>> Speaker 2: Exactly, so yes, so copilot.
>> Speaker 1: Still got to
know what you're doing.
>> Speaker 2: Copilot can be very useful,
but it, for example,
does not know JavaScript.
>> Speaker 1: It knows the internet, and
the internet kinda knows JavaScript, but
it also has been knowing JavaScript for
many years now.
>> Speaker 2: And
JavaScript has changed a lot, and
all kinds of blog posts are just
plain wrong, so word of warning.
>> Speaker 1: All right,
what did we learn from Copilot?
>> Speaker 2: What myself and
Copilot came up with was
randomizing RGB between 0 and 255.
>> Speaker 1: Okay, great.
>> Speaker 2: So, in CSS,
I could do something
like color RGB, I don't know,
100 and get a beautiful muddy color.
>> Speaker 1: That's not gonna help,
let's do 255.
>> Speaker 2: Okay, now I got a bright
green, because this is the red, green,
blue side, up to the green,
we got a fancy thing.
>> Speaker 1: So, same logic as before,
we can scale our random value
to a value in the domain of RGB.
>> Speaker 2: So for example,
I could do R is like
math.random times 255 and
so on and so forth for g and b.
>> Speaker 1: And then I can add into
my handy dandy little template here,
color rgb.
>> Speaker 2: And
then do my r, my g, and my b,
now let's see what happens.
>> Speaker 1: Well, all right, we allowed
the thing to be positioned all the way
near 100%, so
that's why it's sticking over the sides.
>> Speaker 2: But we are indeed getting
different colors now, so that's exciting.
>> Speaker 1: Another thing that
could make our life easier and
make math.random have to
do a little bit less work.
>> Speaker 2: Is there's also
a color space function HSL,
have folks worked with this before.
>> Speaker 1: So, HSL stands for Hue
Saturation Luminance, let's double check.
>> Speaker 2: All right,
so, if I type in HSL
into our friend MDN, we see that
in CSS world, HLSL takes a hue.
>> Speaker 1: A saturation and a lightness
instead of analogous to the R, the G,
and the B that RGB takes red, green blue.
>> Speaker 2: And so this is a little bit
strange to wrap your head around at first.
>> Speaker 1: But what it means is that
instead of with RGB all of the values
affect what the color is gonna
be all of the different ways.
>> Speaker 2: And it's hard to kind of
predict what a combination of those three
at least if you're me.
>> Speaker 1: It's hard to predict what
a combination of those three is gonna
look like.
>> Speaker 2: So HSL is a fun
thing where basically saturation,
the second value is very
much similar to saturation
like on your TV settings or whatever.
>> Speaker 1: So it sort of dials up
the intensity, luminance is sort of like
brightness or how kind of white and
shiny the color looks.
>> Speaker 2: And then the hue is gonna
be something from the color wheel,
where we basically have all
of the colors in one space.
>> Speaker 1: Instead of having
separate spaces for R and G and B.
>> Speaker 2: And so what we could
do is pick kind of a,
okay, let's, so
I could do a S and an L.
>> Speaker 1: I'm doing a little
destructuring here to only have one line
of code.
>> Speaker 2: Not necessary, but, we're
trying to sprinkle in our fancy syntax, so
why not.
>> Speaker 1: So I can just,
I could actually set these to something
that doesn't change
between different calls.
>> Speaker 2: Which means I could even
move this out of the body of the callback
function.
>> Speaker 1: And I could have this
be something like I don't know
what's a good value like, 75%.
>> Speaker 2: We can tweak it later and
now I can get my H inside
the body of my callback.
>> Speaker 1: And in this case
the wheel is measured in degrees,
so we actually kind of, we measure it in
degrees around a circle like an angle.
>> Speaker 2: And so you'll see here that
like often we can put just like D, E G.
>> Speaker 1: For degrees, to this
value instead of percent or whatever.
>> Speaker 2: And so
since the wheel has 360 of those degrees,
we can choose our scaling
value to be 360 and
now, we can do hsl, hsl with our s and
l don't change because we can
have all the same brightness or
whatever, but our hue will change.
>> Speaker 1: So,
just a fun other color space.
>> Speaker 2: Let's see if this worked or
if I got something problematic going on.
>> Speaker 1: I mean, it's changing color.
>> Speaker 2: I think this is a good
lesson in co-pilot because this is
a better solution because
this is accessible,
mine every once in a while I do a really
dark color, and then you can't read it.
>> Speaker 1: Versus this,
you can control the brightness.
>> Speaker 2: Exactly.
>> Speaker 1: Or you can do some scaling
thing on the RGB values to keep it
up above.
>> Speaker 2: You'd have to do some
work on the RGB side to make sure that
the colors are bright enough.
>> Speaker 1: You didn't put it
unit specifier in the string.
>> Speaker 2: Good call.
>> Speaker 1: So, I'm just wondering
if that used the default unit?
>> Speaker 2: I think it might
be defaulting to degrees, but
you know where we could go to check.
>> Speaker 1: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: All right, so,
>> Speaker 1: The function
also accepts a legacy
syntax used by Anjana,
[LAUGH] in which all values
are separated with commas.
>> Speaker 2: You don't
actually need the commas, but
they were already there
from our cheapy thing.
>> Speaker 1: And so, yes,
so what value can h be?
>> Speaker 2: It can be a number,
an angle, or none,
which represents the hue angle.
>> Speaker 1: What does that mean?
>> Speaker 2: I don't know,
let's go find out, but not right now.
>> Speaker 1: So, yes, and then we'll find
all kinds of different examples of like,
okay, yes, if I can just pass in
a degree value as a number and
it'll interpret it as a degree value.
>> Speaker 2: But excellent point that
I wanna be careful when swapping out my
template strings.
>> Speaker 1: Cuz as I seem to be
finding out over and over again today,
hard coding stuff in any kind
of string is a risky business.
>> Speaker 2: All right,
so [LAUGH] yes, okay, so
we have now successfully
with a lot of JavaScript
reproduced what my old DOS,
well no, not the DOS one,
but the first color computer I had,
I think could do.
>> Speaker 1: Windows 95.
>> Speaker 2: There we go.
>> Speaker 1: Your CRT won't get burned in
now.
>> Speaker 2: Exactly, exactly.
>> Speaker 1: [LAUGH]
>> Speaker 2: [INAUDIBLE] 286.
>> Speaker 1: And another good point about
the, so not only is it convenient that we
only had to set one random value here for
HSL, but another advantage is because that
RGB randomness sometimes turns up really
dark values and this is in dark mode.
>> Speaker 2: Or
vice versa if we were in light mode,
could turn up really light value
sometimes that is not good for all of us.
>> Speaker 1: Because if we have in any
way any kind of difficulty with vision or
things like that,
we have a problem
differentiating the text from
the background, and
that means some of the text
could essentially be non-existent to us.
>> Speaker 2: So
this is an accessibility issue and
there are recommendations for
what amount of contrast you
should have between your text or
whatever, and background.
>> Speaker 1: And I'm not an expert in all
of that, but you know who is?
>> Speaker 2: MDN.
>> Speaker 1: So, and there's links in
there to the accessibility guidelines for
web content, so we want to
generally be trying to be mindful of that.
>> Speaker 2: Not just with color,
also with all kinds of stuff, like
putting alt tags on images, for example.
>> Speaker 1: So that when your path
value is wrong and the image doesn't load,
you at least get some kind of string,
and everybody else who's using a screen
reader gets some useful information.
>> Speaker 2: As opposed to just thinking
there's a blank page because someone
injected a bunch of JavaScript without
updating things in an accessible way.
>> Speaker 1: Sidebar,
accessibility is important.
>> Speaker 2: Okay,
I think we have had a win and
we can take it,
we'll take the W.
>> Speaker 1: And for our reward,
we get a random color changer
that somebody made for
a very fancy music video with Drake in it,
where he could do his little dance.